# Server Side
After I had established the outline of the features that I wanted to include in Balance I chose to realize the project as a web application because it is intended to be used by multiple people simultaneously. The features that I wanted to include dictated the other implementation and logistical decisions. The first major design decision was to pick a language and web framework to be used for the server-side part of the implementation. I decided to go with Python as the language and Flask as the framework. This combination had the advantage of familiarity as it was part of the course curriculum and also that it came as a recommendation from friends who had constructed web applications in the past. Another advantage of this choice is that Flask works well with a templating system (namely Jinja), something that I use extensively throughout this project. For the database side of things however, I decided that using the nonrelational MongoDB would both be an interesting learning experience and would provide significant advantages given the type of data I anticipated. Foremost of these is the fact that MongoDB supports Array datatypes with dynamic length and Object datatypes with the ability to dynamically add keys, and that it allows for nesting. I am happy with my decision as I ultimately ended up leveraging all of these features in the implementation of Balance. A fortuitous advantage of using MongoDB is that the Array and Object data types are ideal for passing into Jinja templates.

# Client Side
The basic overview of the client side was determined by the outline of the features that I wanted for Balance.  First, there needed to be a way to manage user log in and user registration. Second, once users were logged into their accounts, they needed a way to view their balances with friends, manage their groups, and create expenses. I thought that putting the option to create groups as well as the lists of current groups and balances on the landing page for users made the most sense since checking balances and creating or navigating to groups were the activities users would want to use quickly and often.  The summary for a given group in the list links to a detailed view page for that individual group. These pages then contain the details of all the expenses in the given group’s history and the option to add new expenses. While it might have allowed for faster access to have the option to create expenses on the landing page, I thought it made more sense for the flow and cohesion of the user experience to have the add expense option on the individual group page.

The implementation of this design was carried out in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript while making use of the industry standard JQuery library and the `classie.js` library of helper functions and Modernizr to handle dependency and browser compatibility issues. The general structure of the website builds upon that established in CS50’s lectures and problems sets with Flask in terms of the login page and register page. Overall, I like the principles of the so-called flat school of design when it comes to the user interface aesthetic as well as the general thought paradigm of minimalism. Both the user landing page and the individual groups page are minimalist in form and style by directly focusing on displaying the relevant data. The group creation form and the form for adding expenses are both inspired by articles on one of my favorite [web design sites]( https://tympanus.net/codrops/) and follow the ideas of flat design.
